The overall goal is to give Physics and Nanotechnology students an engineering perspective on their bachelor education. This is obtained by working with a number of topics within physics and nanotechnology at DTU. Additionally, it is a goal to train a correct measurement method in the laboratory, and finally it is a goal to train working in groups and writing reports. A student who has met the objectives of the course will be able to:
Explain the underlying physics for the following subjects: Imaging the structure of matter with x-rays, ultrafast optical pulses, hydrodynamics and lab-on-a-chip technology, accelerometers, semiconductor nanostructures, and graphene/2D materials.
Conduct simple calculations of important quantities within the subjects mentioned above.
Discuss the research and technology related perspectives of the subjects mentioned above.
Conduct laboratory exercises and document understanding of how to work in the laboratory and how to perform experiments.
Interpret results - theoretical and experimental - and discuss these in relation to the overall subject.
Present and communicate results from measurement and/or simulations, including knowing how to write a well structured and well documented report.
Process measured or calculated data, and evaluate them critically.
Participate constructively in group work, and use the competences of the entire group.
Apply modern software to data processing and computer simulations.
Obtain familiarity with the scientific work approach, using well-developed arguments and well-designed graphical representation of experimental data. The course contains a number of condensed 4-week sections - each with its own topic - in the 13-week periods. Each section is planned and taught by an expert within the specific topic, and contains both research and technology/engineering aspects. The sections are taught by: Departments of Physics, Health, and Photonics Engineering, and DTU Nanolab. The sections deal with: "Seeing the invisible" - X-ray physics and imaging, ultrafast optical pulses, hydrodynamics and lab-on-a-chip technology, accelerometers, semi conductor nanostructures, and graphene/2D materials. The content in these sections will vary from year to year.